File README in gmml/dat/MolecularMetadata 
Begun on 2018-09-13 by BLFoley

This directory holds scripts for generating parts of GMML's molecular metadata.

Please see also the README in includes/MolecularMetadata

The Molecular Metadata is designed to hold default information about atoms, 
molecules, residues, etc.  It is not intended to be routinely used as a place 
for general force-field or similar data that can be read from files.  Rather, 
it is a place for storing information that will allow GMML to model molecules
without having to rely on external sources of information.

Of course, this default data might originate from a force field.  For example,
the equilibrium bond lengths specified in a force field make good guesses 
about what a given bond length should be.  

Storing these data in tables and other data structures rather than in lengthy
lists of logic (such as 'if', 'case', etc.) results in code that is easier to
understand and maintain.

Scripts are used to generate the code for three reasons:

1.  The sources of some information are external to the GMML code.  

    Of course, one might argue that GMML should simply read those files,
    and GMML does this in lots of cases, but dependencies on input files 
    leads to other problems, such as needing to hard-code paths to the
    files or require environment variables like GMMLHOME. 

2.  The desired data structures might change.  Changing a script is 
    easier than writing one just so you can translate all the data.

3.  In some cases, the amount of information is huge, and encoding
    it into a given data structure is non-trivial to do manually.


Examples of Metadata use:

1.  Metadata simplifies tagging, which makes lots of other coding easier.
    Here, the tags get associated with atoms, molecules, residues, etc.

    Here's a specific situation:

    One part of the code detects a sugar and identifies it as DGlcpa1-OH.  It 
    is part of a larger structure containing many residues, some of which are 
    carbohydrates.  Another function needs to calculate ring pucker on all the 
    pyranoses.  But, that function needs a way to know which residues are 
    pyranoses.  It is a simple thing for that function to query the Metadata 
    with a list of residues to find the ones that are 'pyranose'.

2.  It can hold information commonly needed when considering molecular data.

    Examples of this type of information:

    * Van der Waals radii for detecting atoms that are possibly bonded or
      might be clashing.

    * Possible hybridizations of atomss for detecting geometries that are
      very unlikely.

    * The formal charge of a residue.

    * Atomic masses for calculating center of mass.


Here is a tree of the current directory structure:

├── GLYCAM
│   └── GLYCAM06
│       ├── All_Residues.txt
│       ├── README
│       └── ResidueTags
│           ├── 0_grep_residues.bash
│           ├── 1_make_glycam06_residue_tag_lookup.bash
│           ├── 2_general_residue-tags.bash
│           ├── 3_carbohydrate_residue_tags.bash
│           ├── README

